### CONTENTS OF THIS FILE
---------------------

 * Introduction
 * Requirement
 * Data Files
 * Staging Tables
 * Data Modeling
 * ETL Pipeline
 * Project Workspace
 * instructions 


 
### INTRODUCTION 

A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database even more and want to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

### REQUIREMENTS 

building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. 

### DATA FILES

* **Song Dataset**.
    is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.


* **Log Dataset**.
     consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.


### DATA MODELING.

**Schema for Song Play Analysis:**  
Using the song and log datasets, I have created a star schema to be optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.

**Fact Table**
* **songplays** - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong.
    * **Columns**: songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent.
    
**Dimension Tables**
* **users** - users in the app.
    * **Columns**: user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level    
* **songs** - songs in music database
    * **Columns**: song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration    
* **artists** - artists in music database.
    * **Columns**: artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude.
* **time** - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units.
    * **Columns**: start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday.
    
### ETL PIPELINE  
reads data from S3, processes that data using Spark, and writes them back to S3


### PROJECT WORKSPACE

1. **etl.py** reads data from S3, processes that data using Spark, and writes them back to S3.
2. **dl.cfg** contains your AWS credentials.

### INSTRUCTIONS

1. add AWS Security Key and secret Key data to **dl.cfg**.
2. run **etl.py** to load data from S3 to processes that data using Spark, and writes them back to S3